Descriotion
Monitoring the behavior of mice as an animal model plays an important role in medical research to understand diseases and test potential drugs. Two of the methods used is the T maze spontaneous alternation test and Plus Maze Test, which measures mice's learning and memory levels, stress level and their tendency to explore new environments. However, the manual observation process is time-consuming and prone to subjectivity. This research proposes using video processing to increase research efficiency and objectivity. The experiment was carried out at Sebelas Maret University by utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) to detect activity in the T maze spontaneous alternation test. The first stage involves collecting data on the mouse's behavior in the maze, which is then labeled for object detection. This data was trained using YOLOv8 (you only look once) with the CNN (convolutional neural network) method. The trained model successfully achieved an optimal level of accuracy of 0,951 with a recall of 0,981. Computational algorithms were then applied to the model to detect variables such as percentage, distance, and total switching time of the mouse on the maze arms. The research results show that this system can increase efficiency and objectivity in the analysis of the T maze spontaneous alternation test. This system promises significant advances in animal model behavioral research and can be further developed for broader applications, including the understanding of neurological disorders and the development of new therapies.
